how the heck did we get here we not have
claws
we don't have bangs we can't fly or
climb better than any other animal
where are our advantages nature hey
athletes and mathletes what's up I'm
trace thanks for watching dnews today we
have some awesome advantages you know
other than our big brain that we can
lord over the animal kingdom the first
is something that you probably do every
day we throw stuff there are other
animals that throw stuff but nowhere
near as well as we can I'm talking about
grabbing a random rock or a stick or
whatever and hurling it at a target
we're versatile
we're accurate we're powerful and
overall we're probably the best and a
study in the journal Nature has some
answers as to why around two million
years ago one of our ancestors Homo
erectus first came on the scene and for
the first time ever our ancient selves
had a body made for throwing chimpanzees
mainly throw underhanded or like a dart
because of their shoulders and their
waist in chimps everything is strong but
it's also compact it's not as flexible
as homo erectus with a twist of the
waist in an over handed throw Homo
erectus could chuck a spear at his prey
accurately and swiftly enabling us to
rise to the top of the food chain
thanks to these evolutionary advantages
chimpanzees can actually be bested at
throwing over handed by a little league
pitcher they do throw rocks and feces
but not accurately thank goodness we're
not just good at throwing either we're
also damn good at running there was a
TED talk here in DC back in 2010 where
Christopher McDougall spoke about how we
evolved to run we can run longer than
any other animal and we are fantastic at
it when we do it properly he believes
it's one of the other things that humans
were born to do pair running with a
powerful throw and we sounded like
pretty good hunters guys but there's
more than that a study in the journal
psycho nama colleton and review says
even when blindfolded humans are
freaking awesome at chasing stuff
blindfolded when trying to catch
something there are a couple of
different strategies that you can choose
from sharks use a pursuit method they
get behind and they chase that mofo down
it works because they're powerful and
they're fast but if that thing is good
at avoiding you and it's almost as fast
a better strategy is constant angle
trajectory essentially you aim ahead of
your prey and you have time to adjust
your course if your prey moves
using a beeping football participants
were blindfolded and told to catch the
person holding it they listened for the
beep even blindfolded and 97% of the
time they instinctively adopted a
constant angle trajectory to catch their
prey because they couldn't see they used
their other senses to see where the
runner was in their mind and put it all
together super quickly how do you feel
now
still dejected about the lack of
advantage in the wild tell us your
thoughts in the comments and thanks a
lot for tuning in to dnews everybody see
you later